# Statistics training documents

This repository contains a number of relatively small, self-contained documents
offering what I hope is useful advice on various aspects of statistical
modelling in a scientific context.  These documents are written as part of my
role as departmental statistician for the Department of Comparative Cultural
Psychology at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig.
However, I hope they will be interesting and useful to a broader audience and as
such I am making them publically available as Open Educational Resources under a
CC-BY-SA license (with the kind blessing of my head of department, Daniel Haun).

Given their origin, the documents tend to explain/suggest things from the
perspective of psychology research.  They will also make reference to and assume
some familiarity with Richard McElreath's "Statistical Rethinking" textbook, on
the grounds that Richard himself is also at MPI EVA in Leipzig and that many
people in my own department will have taken courses associated with the text.
That said, they should probably still be intelligible to psychologists who
aren't familiar with Rethinking.

The documents are written in R Markdown format, so you can download them to your
own machine and experiment with changing the example code to get a better feel
for how things work.  I will also "knit" the documents to PDF format and commit
those to the repository, but given how frequently updated binary files tend to
bloat up a git repo, I may hold off on doing this until a document is considered
"finished-ish".  On that note, all the documents should be considered
perpetually under construction and corrections and other feedback are always
welcome.

While I do (happily!) directly advise and assist my CCP colleagues in their
analysis tasks, my *ultimate* role here is to "teach people to fish", and in
particular to make their own informed decisions on how to analyse their data,
including whether or not to do so in a Bayesian framework.  As such, I *attempt*
to be impartial throughout these documents, within reason.  It won't be easy!
People are keen to understanding the exciting new Bayesian methods that they are
seeing used more and more often.  For my part, I was happily "raised" as a
Bayesian from my very earliest days as a researcher, by two wonderful
fundamentalists Danielle Navarro and Andrew Perfors (both then at the University
of Adelaide's School of Pyschology).  They're not *really* fundamentalists, but
they showed me the light which has lead me to where I am now, and I dedicate
these documents to them.  May their chains converge ever swiftly!
